Listen closely and listen well, O Little Night-Wanderer. For this happened back in the Very-Near-Now. 

Right on the rough and ragged edge of the Sprawling Suburbs.

In those days, she had no Thieving Thumbs at all. 

No Thieving Thumbs. 
The round and rolling Clever Mother Raccoon.

She had a clever, calculating mind, but heavy, hard, and hindering hands. She hunted to feed her hungry babies. But she could not slip into the silent shadows. She could not lightly pick a lock. She only possessed her paws. 
Her clumsy, mud-mitten, bumble-thick Thumping Paws.

Now, you must understand this, O Little Night-Wanderer. The Tall Two-Legs lived in squarish brick houses, right at the edge of the wild. And every Tuesday twilight, they rolled them out. 
The Great Green Grumbling Plastic Bins. 

They rolled them down the driveway with a rumble-stumble-bump. And left them to sit in the biting light of the streetlamps. 
The Great Green Grumbling Plastic Bins.

Inside of those bins waited the absolute best of the feast. The crusts of the pizzas. The pits of the peaches. And sticky-sweet, sugar-spun cinnamon buns.

One evening, she stepped out from the edge of the woods. 
The round and rolling Clever Mother Raccoon. 

She smelled the sweet scent on the wandering wind. 
A sticky-sweet, sugar-spun cinnamon bun. 

She thought of her hungry babies. She wanted to slip across the yard and steal it away in the silent shadows.

But before she could take three tiny steps, the Honey-yellow Porch Light snapped on. 
Snap!
The yard was suddenly flooded with a thick and Honey-yellow light. She froze in the short, sharp grass. She was completely caught. Her bright, blinking eyes flashed in the sudden light.

She turned and ran. She scrambled all the way back to the dark at the edge of the woods.

High up on the brick chimney, a shadow looked down. The first City Crow, with the click-a-clack beak.

Click-a-clack! 
"You shine like a sun!" he scolded and snapped. "You are loud to the eye! You are hopelessly bright! Go hide your bright head in the dark."

So she pressed her hands hard over her eyes. With her heavy Thumping Paws. 

The magic mud melted and mixed with her fur. It stained her with secrets and shadows. She made herself look like a piece of the night, so the Tall Two-Legs would not see her bright, blinking eyes. 

It was the Night-black Mask of the Bandit, O Little Night-Wanderer. 
And because it was magic, it stuck to her fast.

But the Night-black Mask only worked when she stood perfectly still. And on the wind, she heard the faint, far-off whimpers from the woods. Her babies were waiting.

She took one brave step forward. But she was still too big and too round. A heavy, solid lump. Creeping across the open concrete. The Tall Two-Legs squinted through the squarish window. They saw the solid shadow moving in the light.

She heard the heavy boots of the Tall Two-Legs.

Stomp-Stomp-Stomp!!!

Low on the wooden fence, a sly, slinking shadow looked down. A second City Crow, with the snick-a-snack beak.

Snick-a-snack! 
"You drag like a stone," he hissed and he hummed. "A heavy, hard shape is too easily tracked. Trick the eye. Paint the shadows. Paint rings on your tail."

She grabbed at her fuzzy, fat tail. With her mud-mitten paws. She rubbed the magic mud in circles and stripes. She learned to slip like the wind in the willows, shifting and swaying. She made herself look like the dappled-dark moonlight. 

It was the Ringed Tail of the Phantom. 
And because it was magic, it stuck to her fast.

The Tall Two-Legs looked out the squarish window. But they saw nothing at all. Just the dappled-dark moonlight and the shifting leaves.
Click. The Honey-yellow Porch Light snapped off.
She was hidden. She was a phantom. But her babies were still hungry, and the night was growing old. She crossed the rest of the yard and finally reached her prize. 
The Great Green Grumbling Plastic Bins.

She was a phantom of the forest, but she still possessed the heavy hands of a bear.
She stood on her fuzzy hind legs. She swiped at the lid. With her clumsy, mud-mitten, bumble-thick Thumping Paws. Whack-a-smack-thump! She hit with the right, and she smacked with the left. But the plastic was built smooth and built smart. The lid stayed strictly and stubbornly shut. And she made a terrible, clattering crash.

CREAK!!!
The heavy wooden door swung wide! The Tall Two-Legs stepped right out into the night! The Honey-yellow Porch Light flooded the yard, and chased all the shadows away.
She was thoroughly terrified. She scrambled and she scurried, she slipped and she fled. She ran all the way back to the edge of the street. She hid in the dark and she whimpered. Her babies would go hungry. She had failed.

Then, a tiny, tumbling crumb dropped right on her nose.

A sticky-sweet, sugar-spun crumb.

Right on the streetlamp above her, a third shadow looked down. The third City Crow, with the tap-a-tap beak.

Tap-a-tap! 
He was calm, and he was eating a piece of the prize! He was eating a sticky-sweet, sugar-spun cinnamon bun!
"How did you get that?" she whispered.
"I picked it," he croaked. The City Crow with the tap-a-tap beak. "You look like a shadow, but you still bang like a drum. You wear the Night-black Mask, and you wear the Ringed Tail. But you punch at the plastic. You cannot open a tight thing by punching. You need quiet, careful taps."

"But I only have these," she sniffled, looking down at her hands. Her mud-mitten paws.

"The mud makes the magic that hides you," he answered. 
The City Crow with the tap-a-tap beak.
"But the water reveals what is real."
"You have a clever mind. Now you must uncover your clever hands. Wash the clumsy away. Wash in the Moon-bright Puddle, until only the clever is left."

So she waddled off to the edge of the street. 
She found a pool of water that mirrored the moon. 
The Moon-bright Puddle. She reached into the water. 
With her heavy Thumping Paws.
She rubbed and she scrubbed. 

Splish-a-splash, splish-a-splash. 
She washed the heavy and the hard right into the ripples. She scrubbed until the magic mud was gone, and the weight of the stone was washed completely away.
She pulled her hands out of the water in the Rose-grey Dawn. She held them up to the moonlight. And what do you think was left?

Her tiny, tickle-touch, lock-picking Thieving Thumbs.

She crept back across the yard. The Tall Two-Legs were asleep. She went to the plastic and she tickled the latch. 
With her tickle-touch Thieving Thumbs. 
She held her breath. She gave the plastic a soft, gentle tap.

Click. 
The heavy lid swung open with a sigh and a spin. The vault was open.

She lifted her feast. 
That sticky-sweet, sugar-spun cinnamon bun. 
And she vanished like smoke back into the woods, to feed her wonderful babies.

And that is the reason, to this very minute, that she always wears a Night-black Mask on her face and stripes on her tail. The round and rolling Clever Mother Raccoon. It shows she belongs to the shadows. And you will notice she marches her children right down to the stream. And she teaches her babies to wash their hands in the Moon-bright water. Just to make strictly sure that they keep them. To stay nimble. To stay sensitive. And stay ready. 

Those tiny, tickle-touch, lock-picking Thieving Thumbs.
